today our goal was to explore Montreal's
biggest abandoned building silo number
five built in the early 1900s it was
previously a massive machine the
movement of grain equipped with 206
silos and three different structures
measures almost half a kilometer long
and sixty six point four meters tall we
thought the site would be deserted but
the city recently covered the area with
barbed wire and its own security force
we had to find a way around
warning signs were everywhere the doors
were ported to the walls and were
probably being watched after walking
around the building we've finally found
a broken rusty ladder leading up to a
small opening
and when we finally got inside we were
blown away the building has been
abandoned for over two decades and all
that is left is apocalyptic imagery with
a glimpse into Montreal's past at its
peak silo number five could store enough
grain to produce over 230 million loaves
of bread and handle hundreds of millions
of bushels of grain every year but in
1994 as a result of the progressive
decrease in Montreal's dominance of
grain export silo number 5 was
completely shut down and deserted every
inch was covered in dust and spiderwebs
but here's what we found
all office space with a desk still at
its place and building layouts still on
the wall gunshots to the office windows
and clothes showing hints of vagabonds
stopping by non-functional buttons and
generators and finally the contrasting
imagery from the rusty old windows with
the beautiful Montreal in its background
and then we found a staircase leading
down into a pitch dark basement covered
in caution tape and at the bottom hints
of other trespassers were left behind
with broken glass and beer cans who are
now looking for a way up all doors
inside were bolted to the walls but we
finally found some light this galaxy
freakin
our hopes were however shattered when we
found the staircase leading to the top
cut in half reaching the top seemed
impossible we left sign of our visit and
decided to look for another way to the
top
when we came out positive clean up we'll
enter and people were coming our way we
were hiding for a few minutes eventually
decided to walk around which is when we
stumbled upon another opening the doors
were again all shut but we found a hole
in the wall with light at the end as we
walked inside we found recent signs of
life with undusted clothes utensils and
toilet paper we also find more
impressive rusty engines ropes and wires
as we got higher we reached our first
door and got a glimpse of the factory
from a higher point
we have to be careful of the holes in
the ground but we got to see the city
like we never have before
we finally found a light leaning up to
the top
and it was glorious a factory that once
used to be part of one of materials was
prominent times and now just standing as
all the rules and leaves only our
imagination to picture what it used to
be
walking back he couldn't stop thinking
about the hundreds if not thousands of
workers these buildings used to inhabit
that are now just standing empty at the
edge of the city see you tomorrow